---
layout: publication
title: 'No Language Left Behind: Scaling Human-centered Machine Translation'
authors: [' Nllb Team', "marta R. Costa-juss\xE0", james Cross, "onur \xC7elebi",
  maha Elbayad, kenneth Heafield, kevin Heffernan, elahe Kalbassi, janice Lam, daniel
    Licht, jean Maillard, anna Sun, skyler Wang, guillaume Wenzek, al Youngblood,
  bapi Akula, loic Barrault, gabriel Mejia Gonzalez, prangthip Hansanti, john Hoffman,
  semarley Jarrett, kaushik Ram Sadagopan, dirk Rowe, shannon Spruit, chau Tran, pierre
    Andrews, necip Fazil Ayan, shruti Bhosale, sergey Edunov, angela Fan, cynthia
    Gao, vedanuj Goswami, "francisco Guzm\xE1n", philipp Koehn, alexandre Mourachko,
  christophe Ropers, safiyyah Saleem, holger Schwenk, jeff Wang]
conference: Arxiv
year: 2022
bibkey: 2022no
citations: 297
additional_links: [{name: Code, url: 'https://github.com/facebookresearch/fairseq/tree/nllb'},
  {name: Paper, url: 'http://arxiv.org/abs/2207.04672v3'}]
tags: ["Ethics & Fairness"]
short_authors: Team et al.
---
Driven by the goal of eradicating language barriers on a global scale,
machine translation has solidified itself as a key focus of artificial
intelligence research today. However, such efforts have coalesced around a
small subset of languages, leaving behind the vast majority of mostly
low-resource languages. What does it take to break the 200 language barrier
while ensuring safe, high quality results, all while keeping ethical
considerations in mind? In No Language Left Behind, we took on this challenge
by first contextualizing the need for low-resource language translation support
through exploratory interviews with native speakers. Then, we created datasets
and models aimed at narrowing the performance gap between low and high-resource
languages. More specifically, we developed a conditional compute model based on
Sparsely Gated Mixture of Experts that is trained on data obtained with novel
and effective data mining techniques tailored for low-resource languages. We
propose multiple architectural and training improvements to counteract
overfitting while training on thousands of tasks. Critically, we evaluated the
performance of over 40,000 different translation directions using a
human-translated benchmark, Flores-200, and combined human evaluation with a
novel toxicity benchmark covering all languages in Flores-200 to assess
translation safety. Our model achieves an improvement of 44% BLEU relative to
the previous state-of-the-art, laying important groundwork towards realizing a
universal translation system. Finally, we open source all contributions
described in this work, accessible at
https://github.com/facebookresearch/fairseq/tree/nllb.