---
layout: publication
title: 'Nlp-adbench: NLP Anomaly Detection Benchmark'
authors: Li et al.
conference: SSRN Electronic Journal
year: 2024
bibkey: li2024nlp
citations: 116
additional_links: [{name: Paper, url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04784'}]
tags: [Datasets, RAG, Tools, Evaluation, Transformer, BERT, Model Architecture, Reinforcement
    Learning, Applications, Responsible AI]
---
Anomaly detection (AD) is a critical machine learning task with diverse
applications in web systems, including fraud detection, content moderation, and
user behavior analysis. Despite its significance, AD in natural language
processing (NLP) remains underexplored, limiting advancements in detecting
anomalies in text data such as harmful content, phishing attempts, or spam
reviews. In this paper, we introduce NLP-ADBench, the most comprehensive
benchmark for NLP anomaly detection (NLP-AD), comprising eight curated datasets
and evaluations of nineteen state-of-the-art algorithms. These include three
end-to-end methods and sixteen two-step algorithms that apply traditional
anomaly detection techniques to language embeddings generated by
bert-base-uncased and OpenAI's text-embedding-3-large models.
  Our results reveal critical insights and future directions for NLP-AD.
Notably, no single model excels across all datasets, highlighting the need for
automated model selection. Moreover, two-step methods leveraging
transformer-based embeddings consistently outperform specialized end-to-end
approaches, with OpenAI embeddings demonstrating superior performance over BERT
embeddings. By releasing NLP-ADBench at
https://github.com/USC-FORTIS/NLP-ADBench, we provide a standardized framework
for evaluating NLP-AD methods, fostering the development of innovative
approaches. This work fills a crucial gap in the field and establishes a
foundation for advancing NLP anomaly detection, particularly in the context of
improving the safety and reliability of web-based systems.