---
layout: publication
title: 'TWIX: Automatically Reconstructing Structured Data From Templatized Documents'
authors: Lin et al.
conference: ACM SIGMOD Record
year: 2025
bibkey: lin2025twix
citations: 81
additional_links: [{name: Paper, url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.06659'}]
tags: [RAG, GPT, Tools, Evaluation, Model Architecture, Reinforcement Learning, Datasets]
---
Many documents, that we call templatized documents, are programmatically
generated by populating fields in a visual template. Effective data extraction
from these documents is crucial to supporting downstream analytical tasks.
Current data extraction tools often struggle with complex document layouts,
incur high latency and/or cost on large datasets, and often require significant
human effort, when extracting tables or values given user-specified fields from
documents. The key insight of our tool, TWIX, is to predict the underlying
template used to create such documents, modeling the visual and structural
commonalities across documents. Data extraction based on this predicted
template provides a more principled, accurate, and efficient solution at a low
cost. Comprehensive evaluations on 34 diverse real-world datasets show that
uncovering the template is crucial for data extraction from templatized
documents. TWIX achieves over 90% precision and recall on average,
outperforming tools from industry: Textract and Azure Document Intelligence,
and vision-based LLMs like GPT-4-Vision, by over 25% in precision and recall.
TWIX scales easily to large datasets and is 734X faster and 5836X cheaper than
vision-based LLMs for extracting data from a large document collection with 817
pages.