---
layout: publication
title: Improving Chest X-ray Report Generation By Leveraging Warm Starting
authors: Nicolson Aaron, Dowling Jason, Koopman Bevan
conference: Artificial Intelligence in Medicine
year: 2022
bibkey: nicolson2022improving
citations: 59
additional_links: [{name: Paper, url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2201.09405'}]
tags: [RAG, GPT, BERT, Transformer, Model Architecture, Datasets]
---
Automatically generating a report from a patient's Chest X-Rays (CXRs) is a
promising solution to reducing clinical workload and improving patient care.
However, current CXR report generators -- which are predominantly
encoder-to-decoder models -- lack the diagnostic accuracy to be deployed in a
clinical setting. To improve CXR report generation, we investigate warm
starting the encoder and decoder with recent open-source computer vision and
natural language processing checkpoints, such as the Vision Transformer (ViT)
and PubMedBERT. To this end, each checkpoint is evaluated on the MIMIC-CXR and
IU X-Ray datasets. Our experimental investigation demonstrates that the
Convolutional vision Transformer (CvT) ImageNet-21K and the Distilled
Generative Pre-trained Transformer 2 (DistilGPT2) checkpoints are best for warm
starting the encoder and decoder, respectively. Compared to the
state-of-the-art (\\(\mathcal\{M\}^2\\) Transformer Progressive), CvT2DistilGPT2
attained an improvement of 8.3% for CE F-1, 1.8% for BLEU-4, 1.6% for
ROUGE-L, and 1.0% for METEOR. The reports generated by CvT2DistilGPT2 have a
higher similarity to radiologist reports than previous approaches. This
indicates that leveraging warm starting improves CXR report generation. Code
and checkpoints for CvT2DistilGPT2 are available at
https://github.com/aehrc/cvt2distilgpt2.