---
layout: publication
title: 'X-TURING: Towards An Enhanced And Efficient Turing Test For Long-term Dialogue
  Agents'
authors: Wu Weiqi, Wu Hongqiu, Zhao Hai
conference: 'Proceedings of the 55th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational
  Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)'
year: 2024
bibkey: wu2024x
citations: 87
additional_links: [{name: Paper, url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.09853'}]
tags: [Model Architecture, Evaluation, ACL, Agentic, GPT]
---
The Turing test examines whether AIs exhibit human-like behaviour in natural language conversations. The traditional setting limits each participant to one message at a time and requires constant human participation. This fails to reflect a natural conversational style and hinders the evaluation of dialogue agents based on Large Language Models (LLMs) in complex and prolonged interactions. This paper proposes \textbf\{\textsc\{X-Turing\}\}, which enhances the original test with a \textit\{burst dialogue\} pattern, allowing more dynamic exchanges using consecutive messages. It further reduces human workload by iteratively generating dialogues that simulate the long-term interaction between the agent and a human to compose the majority of the test process. With the \textit\{pseudo-dialogue\} history, the agent then engages in a shorter dialogue with a real human, which is paired with a human-human conversation on the same topic to be judged using questionnaires. We introduce the \textit\{X-Turn Pass-Rate\} metric to assess the human likeness of LLMs across varying durations. While LLMs like GPT-4 initially perform well, achieving pass rates of 51.9% and 38.9% during 3 turns and 10 turns of dialogues respectively, their performance drops as the dialogue progresses, which underscores the difficulty in maintaining consistency in the long term.