---
layout: publication
title: 'Ai-generated Content (AIGC): A Survey'
authors: Jiayang Wu, Wensheng Gan, Zefeng Chen, Shicheng Wan, Hong Lin
conference: Arxiv
year: 2023
bibkey: wu2023ai
citations: 69
additional_links: [{name: Paper, url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2304.06632'}]
tags: ["Survey Paper"]
short_authors: Wu et al.
---
To address the challenges of digital intelligence in the digital economy,
artificial intelligence-generated content (AIGC) has emerged. AIGC uses
artificial intelligence to assist or replace manual content generation by
generating content based on user-inputted keywords or requirements. The
development of large model algorithms has significantly strengthened the
capabilities of AIGC, which makes AIGC products a promising generative tool and
adds convenience to our lives. As an upstream technology, AIGC has unlimited
potential to support different downstream applications. It is important to
analyze AIGC's current capabilities and shortcomings to understand how it can
be best utilized in future applications. Therefore, this paper provides an
extensive overview of AIGC, covering its definition, essential conditions,
cutting-edge capabilities, and advanced features. Moreover, it discusses the
benefits of large-scale pre-trained models and the industrial chain of AIGC.
Furthermore, the article explores the distinctions between auxiliary generation
and automatic generation within AIGC, providing examples of text generation.
The paper also examines the potential integration of AIGC with the Metaverse.
Lastly, the article highlights existing issues and suggests some future
directions for application.