---
layout: publication
title: 'No More Adam: Learning Rate Scaling At Initialization Is All You Need'
authors: Minghao Xu, Lichuan Xiang, Xu Cai, Hongkai Wen
conference: No Venue
year: 2024
bibkey: xu2024no
additional_links: [{name: Code, url: 'https://huggingface.co/discussions/paper/6761c5e4338963d15b264a17'},
  {name: Paper, url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/hf2412.11768'}]
tags: ["Training Techniques"]
short_authors: Xu et al.
---
In this work, we question the necessity of adaptive gradient methods for training deep neural networks. SGD-SaI is a simple yet effective enhancement to stochastic gradient descent with momentum (SGDM). SGD-SaI performs learning rate Scaling at Initialization (SaI) to distinct parameter groups, guided by their respective gradient signal-to-noise ratios (g-SNR). By adjusting learning rates without relying on adaptive second-order momentum, SGD-SaI helps prevent training imbalances from the very first iteration and cuts the optimizer's memory usage by half compared to AdamW. Despite its simplicity and efficiency, SGD-SaI consistently matches or outperforms AdamW in training a variety of Transformer-based tasks, effectively overcoming a long-standing challenge of using SGD for training Transformers. SGD-SaI excels in ImageNet-1K classification with Vision Transformers(ViT) and GPT-2 pretraining for large language models (LLMs, transformer decoder-only), demonstrating robustness to hyperparameter variations and practicality for diverse applications. We further tested its robustness on tasks like LoRA fine-tuning for LLMs and diffusion models, where it consistently outperforms state-of-the-art optimizers. From a memory efficiency perspective, SGD-SaI achieves substantial memory savings for optimizer states, reducing memory usage by 5.93 GB for GPT-2 (1.5B parameters) and 25.15 GB for Llama2-7B compared to AdamW in full-precision training settings.

https://huggingface.co/discussions/paper/6761c5e4338963d15b264a17