---
layout: publication
title: 'S-omninet: Structured Data Enhanced Universal Multimodal Learning Architecture'
authors: Xue Ye, Klabjan Diego, Utke Jean
conference: 2019 International Joint Conference on Neural Networks (IJCNN)
year: 2023
bibkey: xue2023s
citations: 67
additional_links: [{name: Paper, url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.00226'}]
tags: [Attention Mechanism, Tools, Model Architecture, Reinforcement Learning, Multimodal
    Models, Datasets]
---
Multimodal multitask learning has attracted an increasing interest in recent
years. Singlemodal models have been advancing rapidly and have achieved
astonishing results on various tasks across multiple domains. Multimodal
learning offers opportunities for further improvements by integrating data from
multiple modalities. Many methods are proposed to learn on a specific type of
multimodal data, such as vision and language data. A few of them are designed
to handle several modalities and tasks at a time. In this work, we extend and
improve Omninet, an architecture that is capable of handling multiple
modalities and tasks at a time, by introducing cross-cache attention,
integrating patch embeddings for vision inputs, and supporting structured data.
The proposed Structured-data-enhanced Omninet (S-Omninet) is a universal model
that is capable of learning from structured data of various dimensions
effectively with unstructured data through cross-cache attention, which enables
interactions among spatial, temporal, and structured features. We also enhance
spatial representations in a spatial cache with patch embeddings. We evaluate
the proposed model on several multimodal datasets and demonstrate a significant
improvement over the baseline, Omninet.