---
layout: publication
title: 'Think Like Human Developers: Harnessing Community Knowledge For Structured
  Code Reasoning'
authors: Yang et al.
conference: Proceedings of the Twenty-Ninth International Joint Conference on Artificial
  Intelligence
year: 2025
bibkey: yang2025think
citations: 58
additional_links: [{name: Paper, url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.14838'}]
tags: [Model Architecture, Tools, LLM For Code, Agentic, AAAI, GPT, IJCAI, Datasets,
  Reinforcement Learning]
---
Large Language Models (LLMs) have significantly advanced automated code
generation, yet they struggle with complex coding tasks requiring multi-step
logical reasoning. High-quality reasoning data is crucial for improving LLMs'
reasoning capabilities, but such datasets remain scarce. Existing approaches
either rely on computationally expensive reinforcement learning (RL) or
error-prone reasoning chains synthesized by LLMs, posing challenges in
scalability and accuracy.
  To address this challenge, we propose SVRC (Structured and Validated
Reasoning Chains for Code Generation), a novel framework that mines,
restructures, and enriches reasoning chains from community-driven discussions
on software engineering platforms. SVRC refines unstructured and incomplete
discussions of coding problems by aligning them with Software Development Life
Cycle (SDLC) principles, ensuring that reasoning chains capture real-world
problem-solving strategies and support iterative refinement.
  To evaluate the effectiveness of SVRC, we introduce CodeThinker, an LLM
fine-tuned on 12,444 reasoning-augmented samples generated by SVRC. Experiments
on LiveCodeBench show that CodeThinker surpasses its base model by 42.86% on
medium-level code problems in terms of pass@1 and outperforms GPT-4o-mini and
GPT-4o by 73.14% and 115.86%, respectively. Our ablation study further
highlights that each component of SVRC contributes to the reasoning
capabilities of CodeThinker.