---
layout: publication
title: 3D Question Answering
authors: Ye et al.
conference: 2022 IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR)
year: 2021
bibkey: ye20213d
citations: 61
additional_links: [{name: Paper, url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.08359'}]
tags: [Tools, CVPR, BERT, Transformer, Model Architecture, Reinforcement Learning,
  Datasets]
---
Visual Question Answering (VQA) has witnessed tremendous progress in recent
years. However, most efforts only focus on the 2D image question answering
tasks. In this paper, we present the first attempt at extending VQA to the 3D
domain, which can facilitate artificial intelligence's perception of 3D
real-world scenarios. Different from image based VQA, 3D Question Answering
(3DQA) takes the color point cloud as input and requires both appearance and 3D
geometry comprehension ability to answer the 3D-related questions. To this end,
we propose a novel transformer-based 3DQA framework "3DQA-TR", which consists
of two encoders for exploiting the appearance and geometry information,
respectively. The multi-modal information of appearance, geometry, and the
linguistic question can finally attend to each other via a 3D-Linguistic Bert
to predict the target answers. To verify the effectiveness of our proposed 3DQA
framework, we further develop the first 3DQA dataset "ScanQA", which builds on
the ScanNet dataset and contains \\(\sim\\)6K questions, \\(\sim\\)30K answers for
\\(806\\) scenes. Extensive experiments on this dataset demonstrate the obvious
superiority of our proposed 3DQA framework over existing VQA frameworks, and
the effectiveness of our major designs. Our code and dataset will be made
publicly available to facilitate the research in this direction.