---
layout: publication
title: 'Flowmind: Automatic Workflow Generation With Llms'
authors: Zhen Zeng, William Watson, Nicole Cho, Saba Rahimi, Shayleen Reynolds, Tucker
  Balch, Manuela Veloso
conference: No Venue
year: 2024
bibkey: zeng2024flowmind
additional_links: [{name: Code, url: 'https://huggingface.co/discussions/paper/6627228d663d787f5ac3d5be'},
  {name: Paper, url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/hf2404.13050'}]
tags: ["Datasets", "Model Architecture", "Prompting"]
short_authors: Zeng et al.
---
The rapidly evolving field of Robotic Process Automation (RPA) has made significant strides in automating repetitive processes, yet its effectiveness diminishes in scenarios requiring spontaneous or unpredictable tasks demanded by users. This paper introduces a novel approach, FlowMind, leveraging the capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) such as Generative Pretrained Transformer (GPT), to address this limitation and create an automatic workflow generation system. In FlowMind, we propose a generic prompt recipe for a lecture that helps ground LLM reasoning with reliable Application Programming Interfaces (APIs). With this, FlowMind not only mitigates the common issue of hallucinations in LLMs, but also eliminates direct interaction between LLMs and proprietary data or code, thus ensuring the integrity and confidentiality of information - a cornerstone in financial services. FlowMind further simplifies user interaction by presenting high-level descriptions of auto-generated workflows, enabling users to inspect and provide feedback effectively. We also introduce NCEN-QA, a new dataset in finance for benchmarking question-answering tasks from N-CEN reports on funds. We used NCEN-QA to evaluate the performance of workflows generated by FlowMind against baseline and ablation variants of FlowMind. We demonstrate the success of FlowMind, the importance of each component in the proposed lecture recipe, and the effectiveness of user interaction and feedback in FlowMind.

https://huggingface.co/discussions/paper/6627228d663d787f5ac3d5be